In this lesson, we'll connect a react front end to a spring boot back end.
Go to your spring boot boot camp resources and if you don't see the React Spring folder, then please
download the updated resources from GitHub.
And then launch two instances of VS code.
One instance is going to launch the React front end and the other is going to launch the spring boot
to back end.
So here is our spring boot to back end.
Don't worry about these annotations right now.
We will cover them in the rest API section.
Just know that this is our back end.
And when a user makes a request on localhost 88 slash grades, what it's going to do is send back a
list of grades that is serialized into JSON data.
So let's go ahead and run our spring boot back end.
Now, don't worry about what JSON means right now.
We will also cover that in the rest API section.
But just know that JSON is how we can transmit data from one system to another.
So here if I make a request to local host 8080 slash grades.
And here we see Jason, where each object was serialized into a bunch of key value pairs and each set
of key value pairs is delimited by a comma.
So this is JSON.
And JSON is the most popular way of transmitting data to a consumer.
In this case, the consumer is the react front end.
The React front end if we take a look at the code now because this is JavaScript and we don't really
care about frontend development.
The focus of this course will be back end developments.
I'm not going to go into too much detail.
We don't care about JavaScript in this course, but ultimately this is the consumer.
This front end is going to make requests to our spring boot back and it's going to make a request to
local hosts 88 slash grades.
Our back end is going to send back all of this JSON and this JSON data we're going to use to update
the state of the React application, which means over here, what we can do is loop through all of this
JSON data in order to generate the rows and populate this table, which is eventually going to be rendered
by our React application.
So ultimately, this React app makes a request to our spring boot to back end the spring boot.
Back end sends back a bunch of JSON data and we use that JSON data to populate our view, which is eventually
going to be sent back to the client.
Now, in order to run this React application, the first thing you have to do is say NPM install, and
I'm getting ahead of myself because in order to run this React app, you need to have Node.js installed.
I left this link inside of your resources folder.
Okay.
Once you do.
First thing you gotta say is npm install to install our node modules.
And now ignoring all these deprecation messages, I'll just say end PM, start again.
We just want it to run.
We don't really care about the latest version or anything.
All right.
And this frontend can be accessed on local host 3000 and notice our table gets populated with data that
was released from our spring boot back end.
This is really, really cool.
So the client is making a request to our react front end.
This is the client, our browser and the front end.
What it's going to do is make another request to our back end.
The back end sends back the JSON and it uses that JSON to populate the table with data.
This is how the lifecycle of a request should be.
There are three entities the client, the front end, the back end module.
Two of this course will purely focus on the back end portion of web development.
We will be creating all sorts of web services and APIs, which is where Spring Butcher really shines.
You will master the art of creating a robust back end.
And I cannot wait to see you there.